# Shortest Path Explorer

We developed different variations of the A-Star algorithm to find the shortest path from the initial state to the goal state of a robot in a 100 x 100 grid with obstacles. The robot first plans a path that it will take and then executes that path on the grid. If the robot hits an obstacle on its planned path then the robot restarts from the state it ended at. In its planning phase, the robot decides the next state based on the state that has the smallest f-value which is the sum of the g-value (distance from initial state to current state) and h-value (heuristic - manhattan distance). 

The different A-Star algorithms include Repeated Forward A-Star, Backward A-Star, and Adaptive A-Star. Each algorithm represents a different way of finding the shortest path from the initial state to the goal state. Forward A-Star is the standard way of finding the shortest path where the robot plans a path from the initial state to the goal state, then executes that path, and every time it hits an obstacle along the way, it will repeat the process from that state. In Backward A-Star, the robot plans the path in reverse order, from the goal to the initial state, but executes the path from the initial state. In other words, it plans backwards but executes the path forwards. Lastly, Adaptive A-Star is similar to Forward A-Star, but the difference is that with every repeat of A-Star we update the heuristics of the states. The algorithm uses what it learned in previous searches to update the heuristic values of the states that were already to make the search more efficient. 

After implementation, all 3 algorithms were compared based on their implementation and statistical data was collected to also analyze runtime and the number of states expanded for each algorithm. 